# CelestialObjectClassification
Working website for predictions: https://celestialobjectclassification-8rhzu7icrp65ca3cqqdi2z.streamlit.app/

The universe is filled with a vast array of celestial bodies, each of which can provide valuable insights about the cosmos. Amongst the most commonly studied celestial objects are stars, galaxies, and quasars. One key challenge in astronomy is the accurate classification of these objects. They each exhibit unique characteristics and behaviors but also have similar characteristics and behaviors which can be quite challenging to sort them out and predict them accurately.
During the project, I utilized the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) D14, which provides public data of space observations. The SDSS dataset has been used in many astronomical research including studying extra galactical objects like galaxies and quasars, as well as stars in our very own galaxy, as this dataset purpose was to classify quasars, stars outside our galaxy is not captured. 
The data consists of 10,000 observations of space taken by the SDSS. Each observation is described by 17 features and 1 class columns which identifies it to be either a star, galaxy or quasar. 
The dataset includes observations of a variety of properties of each object.
Astronomy is a data-intensive field, dealing with large volumes of observational data collected by telescopes. The amount of data collected will continue to expand, this becomes tedious for astronomers to manually sift through the data and classify the celestial objects individually. 
In addition, the classification of celestial bodies is not a trivial task. It requires a deep understanding in astronomy and careful analysis of the observed properties of each object. Misclassification of celestial bodies can lead to incorrect assumptions which hinders our understanding of the observable universe.
The main objective of this project is to build a predictive model that can accurately classify a celestial object as a star, galaxy, or quasar based on these observed properties. The development of such a model could help automate the classification process, but also efficiently and accurately. In the following sections of the report, we will be discussing the steps taken to explore and pre-process the data, the methods used to improve the predictive model, experimentations of different hyperparameter tuning and other ways to further improve the models, and the results obtained.
